Project Backlog – User Stories 

1. As a coordinator, I want to be able to create an account so I can use the application to coordinate volunteers. 

Acceptance criteria: 

    Have a clearly visible sign-up element in a predictable location 

    Traditional account creation form with role selection (coordinator, volunteer) 


2. As a volunteer, I want to be able to create an account so I can use the application to track my contributions. 

Acceptance criteria:  

    Have a clearly visible sign-up element in a predictable location 

    Traditional account creation form with role selection (coordinator, volunteer) 


3. As a user, I want to be able to create an account so I can use the application. 

Acceptance criteria: 

    Have a clearly visible sign-up button in a predictable location 

    Traditional account creation screen with role selection (coordinator, volunteer) 

    Sign-up button replaced with username once account created/logged in 

    Password requirements, at least 8 characters, 1 capital letter, and 1 special character. 

    Success notification after successful account creation 

    Account details inserted into database 


4. As a logged-in volunteer, I want to be able to manage my profile so that coordinators interested can find me. 

Acceptance criteria: 

    Profile screen accessible from clicking on name in upper right corner 

    Separate box for skills, areas of interest and contact information 

    Input fields for each box for each skill/area of interest to be listed 

    Input field for contact information with edit button 

    Success notification upon successful update of fields 

    Modified fields updated in database 


5. As a logged in coordinator, I want to be able to create an event so I can acquire and manage volunteers. 

Acceptance criteria: 

    Event creation button clearly visible in upper right corner 

    Input fields for each event-detail including title, description, date, time, location, and number of volunteers needed 

    Create event button below input fields 

    Success notification upon successful event creation 

    Event details inserted into database 


6. As a volunteer, I would like to see previous events I volunteered for on my so I can track my volunteer history.   

Acceptance criteria: 

    Profile page should have a ‘volunteer history’ tab/section with a clear heading 

    Events should be identified by their title  

    Most recent event displayed first, oldest event last 

    Each event is interactive, and leads to its event page  


7. As a volunteer, I would like to log hours, or update logged hours, for a specific event so I can help the community organisation keep track of each volunteer’s hours. 

Acceptance criteria: 

    Each active event that a volunteer is participating should be listed by its title on the volunteer’s profile under a ‘Current Events’ section.  

    As a logged-in participating volunteer, a respective event page should display ‘X Hours Volunteered’ as well as an obviously interactable ‘log hours’ or ‘update hours’ button 

    Logging hours updates the hours in database 


8. As a user, I would like to have a page dedicated to current public community events needing volunteers so I can find events based on their details. 

Acceptance criteria: 

    A user does not need to be logged in to view events on the page 

    The page displays events and a snapshot of their event details (including the event title, organisation name, time listed, event date, location, volunteers needed, etc.) 

    Initially or if filters are cleared, events are displayed by date posted starting at most recent  

    Each event displayed should be interactive so that a user can see its page 

    The page should be able to be filtered by each event detail (e.g. location, event type, time posted, event date) 

 

9. As a logged in coordinator, I want the ability to search and filter volunteers by skills or interests for specific events 

Acceptance criteria: 

    Filtering options and a search bar for coordinator use 

    Can filter with multiple skills 

    Results update within the view as filtering is applied 

    Results can be interacted with and allow a coordinator to view the volunteers profile 


10. As a volunteer, I want the ability to withdraw my sign-up from an event, in case i am unable to attend 

Acceptance criteria: 

    “Cancel sign-up" option available on event page for volunteers signed up to that event 

    Cancelling frees up a slot for events that have a set capacity 

    Coordinator’s list of signed up volunteers' updates to show the withdrawal 

    Cancelling removes event from the volunteer’s current events 


11. As a logged-in volunteer, I want to receive an alert when an event I've signed up for approaches, so i can remember to attend 

    Notification appears on the volunteer’s profile at a set period before the event is logged to start 

    Reminder includes name of event, date, time and location/address for the event 

    Notification clear automatically after time set passes, or can be manually cleared by the volunteer 


12. As a logged in coordinator, I want to be able to create and match volunteer profiles with their skill sets to predefined capabilities or requirements, so they can match them automatically or manually to relevant opportunities.  

Acceptance Criteria: 

    Profile filtering of user data that can automatically show if a profile meets minimum criteria 

    Profiles must be created with a certain amount of required fields (to validate requirement checking) 

    Coordinators can match the profiles, or recommend them to other coordinators. 

    Filtering profiles by specific criteria if required for certain jobs 


13. As a logged in coordinator, I want to be able to assign volunteers to specific scheduled events based on their availability and preferences so the events are staffed adequately.  

Acceptance Criteria: 

    Viewing of scheduled times, availability & preferences of volunteers. 

    Event availability perusable in conjunction with users schedule data for easy assignment 

    The section should have its own display button/menu and landing page. 

    Click & drag or clickable assignment button for users to events. 

    Events should display to the coordinator the amount of people already assigned, and a recommended amount of people for an event size if historical data exists for a similar event. 
     

14. As a logged in coordinator, I want to set up recurring events so that I don’t have to manually re-enter events each time. 

Acceptance Criteria: 

    Option to automate or set specific events to occur at X interval of times. 

    Tab that appears underneath the event page or after event creation, to prompt if the coordinator wishes to have it occur again 

    Three buttons to proceed; ‘X’ button in top right to exit out of the option. ‘Create recurring event’ button on the bottom left, which opens to the recurring event page detail, or a ‘remind me later’ which will prompt after the event ends.  

    Recurring events shall have access to previous event details to copy the event. 

 

15. As a logged in coordinator, I wish to be able to modify my events or other coordinators' previous events into an event template, so that I can create similar events easily. 

Acceptance Criteria: 

    Access to events that are marked as public from others (details/information) 

    Cloning of event details into a template form, that excludes private information. 

    Display personal events in first tab,  

    Display public coordinator events in the second tab, with a search bar and criteria list. 
